Adam Marton
Graphic designer & journalist

amarton@umd.edu
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-marton-62113512/
Twitter: https://twitter.com/adam_marton
GitHub: https://github.com/amarton

I am a designer specializing in the digital presentation of the news, including data visualization, front-end development, and information graphics. I am also a visual journalist focused on visual storytelling, code, and data. I have real-world experience leading design and development teams in a busy daily newsroom.


Experience:

Senior editor of graphics and data
The Baltimore Sun
April 2011 – Feb 2018
I manage a team of visual journalists tasked with using code, design, and data to create news presentations, graphics, and data visualizations that provide context and deeper understanding of the news. I work on daily and weekly news stories as well as long-term enterprise and investigative projects with journalists across the newsroom. I create custom visuals, presentations, and graphics that tell cohesive and impactful stories. I also work with reporters to analyse and visualize large data sets, finding emerging stories from unexplored data. “The 45 Minute Mystery of Freddie Gray’s Death,” was a 2015 Pulitzer Prize finalist (and won many other awards). Two projects from 2016, “Shoot to Kill” and “Bridging the Divide”, are finalists in the 2017 Online Journalism Awards (links for all mentioned projects below). I have taught newsroom training sessions focused on increasing digital proficiency, visual storytelling, data analysis, and metrics.
Relevant links: baltimoresun.com/data, baltimoresun.com/shoot-to-kill, data.baltimoresun.com/freddie-gray/, data.baltimoresun.com/news/bridging-the-divide/

Adjunct instructor, Mass communications
Towson University
January 2011 - May 2018
I teach a media graphics course focused on design fundamentals and hands-on design and production of various forms of visual communication, including infographics and websites. I redesigned the course from the ground up. Relevant link: adammarton.com/mediagraphics

Creative manager & Web designer
The Baltimore Sun
2005 – 2010
I was responsible for art direction and management of a multidisciplinary creative team, producing niche publication websites and online marketing campaigns. Oversaw design and build of many magazine websites, including Soundoff, Chesapeake Homes, and Maryland Family Magazine.

Media specialist
Operation Respond, Inc
October 1999 – April 2005
Responsible for producing company’s website, newsletter, press releases and training manuals.


Education:

Master of Arts, Publication Design, University of Baltimore, 2009

Bachelor of Arts, Mass Communications, Minor in English, Towson University, 1999


Skills:

Graphic design. Specializing in interactive design, data visualization, user experience, and infographics. Mapmaker creating deep, interactive maps using CartoDB and ArcGIS. Creative Cloud professional.

Front-end development. Fluent in HTML5/CSS3, responsive design, mobile design, JavaScript, Github, SCSS, Pug. Experienced with node.js, Wordpress, PHP/mySQL, much more.

Journalism. Senior editor at a large daily newspaper. Visual journalist and designer. Believer in watchdog journalism, local news, and solutions reporting. Dedicated to factual storytelling across mediums.

Visual storytelling. I work with reporters, photographers, and visual journalists to create news stories, presentations, and visuals that bring data, information, and features to life using code.

Teaching. Experienced in designing curriculum, teaching college students, and training newsroom staff in journalism and digital topics.

Data analysis. Experienced in data analysis and visualization and developing stories from data.
